survivors of a nuclear attack are
grouped together for days in the
basement of their apartment building
where fear and hunger drives them insane
and turns them into animals
welcome to total recaps
today we will explain a 2011 mystery
sci-fi title the divide
get ready for some spoilers take a seat
and enjoy
the movie is set in new york city which
has been destroyed in a devastating
nuclear attacks
residents race down the stairs into the
basement to seek for shelter
eight residents managed to enter the
bunker before mickey the janitor closes
the door
mickey is the one who created the bunker
the way it is now and down there he is
the boss
while mickey maintains control of the
bunker the group adjusts to the cramped
confines
no one can leave since radiation might
kill them in seconds and expose everyone
else to danger
sam wonders if it was a nuclear weapon
at all
mickey responds affirmatively blaming
other cultures
eva inquires whether anyone has a signal
adrian had already attempted but failed
mickey takes everyone on a tour of the
basement the storage cells his quarters
and the restroom when bobby complains
the toilet is disgusting mickey responds
it's because they're trying to save
water
mickey donates his canned bean supply to
feed everyone
people start to feel claustrophobic and
trapped
josh and bobby decide to leave on their
own but mickey gets an axe and swings it
at joshua he won't let anyone open those
doors the situation becomes tense
between mickey josh and bobby
after a couple of days while mickey is
preparing the beans josh laments the
fact that he eats the same garbage every
day
mickey tells them he feeds them with his
limited supplies and then sam bursts
saying he is focused on stupid beans
while people are roasted outside
mickey slaps him and shows him who is
the boss
wendy becomes upset so mickey calms her
down with a magic trick
suddenly a noise can be heard coming
from the other side of the door someone
is coming so mickey orders to turn off
the lights
some become hopeful believing it is a
rescue operation and they will finally
be rescued delvin thinks something bad
is coming and escapes the area four
unknown men in hazmat suits enter the
room armed with radiation detectors and
rifles
maryland is rendered unconscious and
young wendy is kidnapped and carried out
of the bunker they do not respond to any
of the group's questions the group
disperses and the intruders open fire
one intruder takes control of their
water supply
mickey stabs one of the intruders then
takes up his gun and shoots another in
the back
mickey forces the enemy to leave he
illuminates the room and secures the
door with a chain
adrian is shot in the arm and is
profusely bleeding
it is obvious that eva likes adrian
although she came here with sam who is
in love with her eva eventually locates
sam who is traumatized the group
speculates on the identity of the
aggressor they suspect they are actually
american not some foreigners like they
previously thought
marilyn has awoken and is attempting to
exit the bunker in order to retrieve her
daughter
as everyone attempts to pacify her she
spirals out of control and is locked in
one of the rooms
later the group decides to track down
wendy
josh agrees to dress up a hazmat suit
when they open the bunker they discover
that the area has been completely sealed
off by material tunnels leading to some
sort of laboratory where he observes
additional intruders
they have preserved body parts and hair
baskets
children are being incubated in the next
room and he discovers wendy with her
eyes taped
at that point the intruder approaches
and deprives josh of oxygen he escapes
the lab and shoots several of them but
drops his gun in the process
josh is distraught and describes what he
saw
marilyn's heart is broken as he
apologizes to her the door makes noises
they are being welded in by intruders
josh begins to experience radiation
related side effects
evo approaches adrian and they have an
emotional talk
they are about to kiss but sam appears
and catches them in the act
people are accepting the fact they are
staying in the bunker for a while so
they start to form relationships it
seems
marilyn becomes intimate with bobby that
way she thinks less about her lost
daughter
later delvin visits mickey's room and
starts asking him about his intentions
and about the bunker mickey sends him
out but delvin complains to the others
they immediately visit mickey and take
over his room saying it is theirs now
mickey is enraged and is thinking about
revenge
as the time goes by the bunker residents
are thinking their own ways hot to kill
boredom
marilyn who is intimate with bobby tells
eva that she should sleep with josh
because that way she would secure her
safety from the other men who soon might
take advantage of her in this crazy
situation
one day as they were arguing mickey
punches josh which makes josh bobby and
adrian angry and they want to punish him
for his cocky attitude he had since the
very beginning
delvin pulls out a taser and approaches
mickey delvin discovers his hidden safe
chamber and insists that mickey open it
a scuffle develops and mickey shoots
devlin eva is nearby and she witnesses
everything mickey's plea of self-defense
is dismissed and the mob knocks him out
and ties him to a chair josh and bobby
start to torture him in order to get the
combination for his safe
they amputate his finger and he reveals
the code they open the chamber and see
plenty of supplies in there
they lock mickey in the isolation as a
punishment bobby and josh have taken
control over the bunker and are
torturing maryland physically and
mentally
bobby humiliates marilyn as josh
expresses his desire for eva eva and sam
try but fail to defend maryland from
josh and bobby eva cannot stand it
anymore and has a nervous breakdown sam
consoles her at first but then he jumps
her and wants more but she refuses
marilyn has also gone mad and has only
boys on her mind
josh and bobby continue to take
advantage of merrell and bad mental
condition after they took advantage of
her marilyn approaches eve with a
depressed look on her face eva is
assigned to watch mickey and he reveals
that there is a gun hidden in his safe
room
when eva asks sam to assist her in
obtaining the pistol sam chastises her
later eva is challenged to a game of
truth or dare in exchange for food
rations
she chooses and accepts truth
she says yes when asked if she loves sam
sam speaks and josh yells at him and
tells him to go chop up delvin's body
he fails to cut delvin despite bracing
himself
eva is horrified after josh and bobby
push her to do it
later josh and bobby shave their heads
after losing their hair due to radiation
caused illness
bobby is sad because of his ugly looks
he puts on cosmetics and wears a woman's
robe
mickey tells eva that there is another
exit from the bunker the septic tank
eva tries to steal the gun but she can't
get past crazy bobby and josh and she
even discovers marilyn's body
they have both battered her to death eva
decides to make a distraction to get to
the gun
she turns of the lights to lure bobby to
the switches and visits josh pretending
like she will sleep with him as she is
doing that sam will steal the gun for
them sam tries to enter the locked
chamber but the code has been changed
bobby catches him and stops him while
eva is still amusing josh unaware he is
here for the gun bobby unlocks the door
and send then discovers the gun which he
drops and bobby attempts to seize
sam kicks bobby and snatches his gun
josh tries to push himself on eva but
she manages to get away with the help of
adrian
with a gun in his hands sam shoots
adrian because of eva who fell in love
with adrian
sam is beaten by josh but bobby wants to
shoot him when eva uses a can lid to cut
his throat
eva rushes to set mickey free and he
then shoots josh who sets himself on
fire as well as the whole place sam and
mickey are trying their best to put out
the fire but eva has enough and leaves
the shelter
she puts on the hazmat suit and bursts
through the toilet and into the septic
tank below eva makes her way out of the
septic tank and into the ruins of the
city at the very end of the movies she
is seen wandering around the devastated
streets of new york
thank you for watching if you want to
see more make sure to subscribe and turn
on notifications
see you later